Title: One-step Diffusion with Distribution Matching Distillation
URL: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2311.18828.pdf

Quantitative Results: We aim to reproduce quantitative evaluation with CIFAR-10. The paper reported 2.66 FID on CIFAR-10 with a conditional model (see Table 6).

Qualitative Results: We will generate examples from CIFAR-10 conditioned on the classes (see Figure 12). 


NOTE: We plan to also incorporate and provide examples and conduct evaluation on ImageNet 64x64 if computational power and time allows (due to training dataset size ~1M). Apart from training on the entire dataset, we may take a subset and still compare the results with the paper for further investigating our results and assess roughly how our implementation matches the results reported.

NOTE-2: We also consider providing results (presumably only qualitative) for AFHQ as well. This is because the dataset is relatively small and easy to train, and also have a 64x64 resolution relatively higher quality compared to CIFAR-10. However, neither quantitative nor qualitative results regarding this dataset (AFHQ) are reported in the paper.
—— version 1 submission ——

With the computational resources we have, we altered some settings, specifically the batch size. The batch size used for CIFAR-10 training in the paper is 56 per GPU (7x GPU) totalling to the effective batch size of 392 (assuming no gradient accumulation is used). We conducted experiments with a single RTX 4090 GPU and setting the batch size to 48. With this reduction, we scaled the learning rate also with square root of the batch size scaling which is approximately 1.75e-5 from the base learning rate 5e-5 from the paper.

We integrated Neptune.ai for experiment tracking and plan to make it public as well with giving the reference in README.md. We implement and reported FID scores on the original CIFAR-10 test split, it could be also nice to see the FID for base model (teacher) samples, as the training scheme is distillation and the sampling quality is bounded by the teacher's distribution. We plan to provide this FID metric for teacher model distribution in the upcoming experiments (v2).

We get qualitatively satisfying results although FID is not close, but the training phase has not been completed yet (due to some bugs, mistakes, we
allocated only a small amount of time by now (10 hours)). However, our FID is getting close to the paper as training goes on, the bugs are fixed. Nonetheless, we probably cannot reach the FID reported in the paper (2.66) because of the compute resources constraints (in the paper the model was trained in 7 GPUs with 52 batch size corresponding 8 times longer training duration for our setup (apprx. 17 days)).

We plan to continue training CIFAR-10 training for a while to get better results. Later if we have enough time, we plan to conduct experiments on the
AFHQ 64x64 dataset. We also plan to save image grids more informative (added labels for class ids and x, x_ref etc.).

Additionally, we plan to make the notebook Colab compatible.

—— version 2 submission ——
As we already have mentioned our target to be reproducing the paper results for CIFAR-10 conditional training/generation, we continued the training process for more days reaching a smaller FID score of 4.43 (as of now). During the project-v1 submission our FID score was around 5.32, so we the current state (FID of 4.43) as a significant improvement. Also, apart from the quantitative results we aim to reproduce, we are confident that qualitatively our model performs comparable to the qualitative results provided in the paper.

We put our effort and compute resource (and time) to improve on the CIFAR-10 results and hoping to get close to the FID score of the paper. Since the compute resources are dedicated to this training in the meantime, we could not work on AFHQ 64x64 dataset.